 **what is kubernate achitecture?

Its is an losely coupled mechanisam for service discovery over the cluster,
A kuberntes cluster has one or maore control planes and one or more compute nodes.


**What are kubernates achitecture components?

The main components are:
1.Nodes
2.Image registry
3.Pods

node:- Node are VM's or physiacl servers that hosts contianersied applications.
Each node in a cluster run one or more application intances.

image registry:- In image registry container images are stored(images with different versions when we want we can transfred to nodes control plane for excution in container pods)

pods:- pods are  containerized applications run,they can include one or more containers,
and containers are smallest unit for the deploment apllication.


**what is kubernates control plane achitecture?

components for the control plane:-
kube-apiserver
etcd
kube-scheduller
controller

kube-apiserver:-Application program interface ued to manage,create , and configure kubernates cluster.all the components in the k8's communication can be done through the api 

etcd:- what ever the data comes from the containers it will stored

kube-scheduler:- when new pod is created these assaigns to a node for execution based on resource requirement.

kube-controller:- in any case pod are contianer is deleted are terminated it will create according to configuration which we were given in the .ymal file 

**What is kubernates node architecture?

node are machine either VM's are physical servers, where kubernates place to execute :-
kubelet: it ensures that the continers described in podspec are up and running properly

kube-proxy:- its maintian network rules on nodes.these network rules aloow network communication to your pods from network sessions inside or outside of cluster.

container-runtime:- contianer runtime also knon as container engine, is a software compenent that can run continers on a host os
 
**What are other kubernates infrastruture components?

pods: pods are the most basic execution unit for kubernates application,pods have its own i.p adresses, pod have single container and some have the another those are called the SIDECAR containers.

Delopyments:- deployments tells how to create or modify instances of the pods that hold a continerized  applications.

replicaset:-  kubernates object used to maintian a stable et of eplicated pods running with in  a clluster at an given time.

cluster DNS: domain naming service it is used to naming to the paticular application 

contianer resource monitering :  


